README.md, before:

# grunt-tree
Parse a directory to a tree with json format.

## Why I writen this plugin?
I need build my static files with md5 version. I want to get this:
``` js
// js.json
{
    "base": "js/base.xxx.js",
    "jquery": "js/jquery.xxx.js"
}
// or
{
    "www-base": "www/js/base.xxx.js",
    "mobile-base": "mobile/js/base.xxx.js"
}
// css.json
{
    "base": "css/base.xxx.css"
}
```
Then, I can get the real path via a function, no matter what the environment is development or production.

> The best Grunt plugin ever.

## Getting Started
This plugin requires Grunt `>=0.4.0`

If you haven't used [Grunt](http://gruntjs.com/) before, be sure to check out the [Getting Started](http://gruntjs.com/getting-started) guide, as it explains how to create a [Gruntfile](http://gruntjs.com/sample-gruntfile) as well as install and use Grunt plugins. Once you're familiar with that process, you may install this plugin with this command:

```shell
npm install grunt-tree --save-dev
```

One the plugin has been installed, it may be enabled inside your Gruntfile with this line of JavaScript:

```js
grunt.loadNpmTasks('grunt-tree');
```

## The "tree" task

### Overview
In your project's Gruntfile, add a section named `tree` to the data object passed into `grunt.initConfig()`.

```js
grunt.initConfig({
  tree: {
    options: {
        // md5: boolean or number [1-32] | default: false
        // format: | boolean default: false
        // type: array | default: []
        // recurse: boolean | default: true
        // cwd: string | default: ""
        // ext: object
        //      ext.level: boolean or number [1-N] | default: false
        //      ext.hyphen: string | default: "-"
        // exclude: array | default: []
        // uncpath: boolean | default: false
        // prettify: boolean | default: false
    },
    your_target: {
      /** contents like this:
        files: [
            {
                src: ['relativePath/'],
                dest: 'saveTheResult/'
            }
        ]
      */
    },
  },
})
```

### Options

#### options.md5
Type: `Boolean|Number`
Default value: `false`

Get the md5 value of the file and put in file name. If the value is number, then cut the full md5 value to the length.

#### options.format
Type: `Boolean`
Default value: `false`

A boolean value that what you want the format of result to be.

The Default result is the tree format like the command tree.

And if format set to true, then output a one-to-one mode. Becareful to set format to true, it will overwrite the same file name.

#### options.type
Type: `Array`
Default value: `false`

Filter the postfix of the files you set.

#### options.recurse
Type: `Boolean`
Default value: `true`

Whether recurse in your given directory.

#### options.cwd
Type: `String`
Default Value: `''`

Relative to the src directory.

#### options.ext
Type: `Object`
Default value: `{ level:0, hyphen: "-" }`. Add in verison `0.4.4`.

There is a new option for solve the problem of the same name in directory. 

*Note:*

*And the format option must be set to `true`*.

The level option in options.ext means the subdirectory level.
If file relative path is 'www/css/base.css' and level set to 1, then the result will be: `"www-base": "www/css/base.css"`.
And if level set to 2, then the result will be: `"css-base": "www/css/base.css"`. But you set level to 3 in this condition, the result also is : `"base": "www/css/base.css"`.

#### options.exclude
Type: `Array`
Default value: `[]`. Add in version: `0.4.5`.

This is new option for filter needless files. How to use? GO <http://gruntjs.com/api/grunt.file#grunt.file.match>

*Note:*

*This is relative to the value of `options.cwd`*.


#### options.uncpath
Type: `Boolean`
Default value: `false`. Add in version `0.4.5`.

This is new option for some people run in the windows system and they need unix path rather than the default windows path.

So, if your project run in unix system, you can turn on it.

#### options.perttify
Type: `Boolean`
Default value: `false`. Add in version `0.4.5`.

This is new option for output style, It is equivalent to `JSON.stringify(json, null, perttify ? 2 : 0)`.

Anyway, see the examples.

### Caution
This task is not support `Building the files object dynamically` in configuring-tasks of grunt.

Go to [Building the files object dynamically](http://gruntjs.com/configuring-tasks#building-the-files-object-dynamically), see more infomation.

### Usage Examples

#### Default Options

```js
grunt.initConfig({
    tree: {
        default: {
            options: {},
            files: [
                {
                    src: ['test/'],
                    dest: '/tmp/test.json'
                }
            ]
        }
    }
});

// If the have files: "a.css", "js/b.js", "c" in the test directory,
// 1. run grunt, then the result will like:
{
    "a": "a.css",
    "js": {
        "b": "js/b.js"
    },
    "c": "c"
}

// 2. change the options to: { md5 : 8 }, and result will be like:
{
    "a": "a.e8dcfa25.css",
    "js": {
        "b": "js/b.59efd297.js"
    },
    "c": "c.a8e91771"
}

// 3. change the options to: { format: true }, and result will be like:

{
    "a": "a.css",
    "b": "js/b.js"
    "c": "c"
}

// 4. change the options to: { type: ["js", "css"] }, and result will be like:
{
    "a": "a.css",
    "js": {
        "b": "js/b.js"
    }
}

// 5. change the options to: { recurse: false }, and result will be like:
{
    "a": "a.css",
    "c": "c"
}

// 6. change the options to : { format: true, ext: { level: 1, hyphen: "-" } }, and result will be like:
// Attention: if we use ext option, and the format must be set to true.
{
    "a": "a.css",
    "c":"c",
    "js-b":"js/b.js"
}
// 7. try to mix the options, and have a look.
...

```
#### Two real example
```js
var APP_NAME = 'imovie',
    PATH_TMP = 'tmp/';

var deps = {};

function getVersion(filepath, jsonFile, grunt) {
    grunt.log.writeln(filepath, jsonFile).ok();
    if (!deps[jsonFile]) {
        deps[jsonFile] = grunt.file.readJSON(jsonFile);
        grunt.log.writeln('Loading file:', jsonFile);
        grunt.log.writeln('Content is:', deps[jsonFile]);
    }
    var filename = filepath.match(/(?:^|\/)([^\/]+)\.(js|css|less)$/)[1];
    return deps[jsonFile][filename];
}

module.exports = function(grunt) {
    var config = {
        pkg: grunt.file.readJSON('package.json'),
        uglify: {
            options: {
                compress: true,
                banner: '/*! ©<%= pkg.name %> <%= pkg.version %> */\n'
            },
            build: {
                files: [
                    {
                        expand: true,
                        cwd: PATH_SRC,
                        src: [APP_NAME + '/*.js', APP_NAME + '/**/*.js'],
                        dest: PATH_DEST,
                        ext: '.js',
                        rename: function(dest, src) {
                            var version = getVersion(src, PATH_TMP + APP_NAME + '.json', grunt);
                            return version && (dest + version);
                        }
                    }
                ]
            }
        },
        tree: {
            options: {
                format: true,
                md5: 8
            },
            js: {
                options: {
                    cwd: APP_NAME + '/',
                    type: ['js']
                },
                files: [
                    {
                        src: PATH_SRC,
                        dest: PATH_TMP + APP_NAME + '.json'
                    }
                ]
            }
        }
    };
    grunt.initConfig(config);
    grunt.loadNpmTasks('grunt-contrib-uglify');
    grunt.loadNpmTasks('grunt-tree');

    grunt.registerTask('builddeps', 'build static dependencies for mobile project base on freemarker', function() {
        var jsContent = grunt.file.read(PATH_TMP + APP_NAME + '.json'),
            cssContent = grunt.file.read(PATH_TMP + APP_NAME + 'css.json');

        grunt.file.write(FILE_STATIC, '<#assign JS_FILE=' + jsContent + ' CSS_FILE=' + cssContent + '>');
    });

    grunt.registerTask('default', ['tree','uglify', 'builddeps']);

});
```

```js
// Gruntfile.js

var STATIC_PATH = 'static/',
    BUILD_PATH = 'build/';

module.exports = function(grunt) {
    var config = {
        tree: {
            js: {
                options: {
                    format: true,
                    md5: 8,
                    type: ['js'],
                    ext: {
                        level: 1
                    }
                },
                files: [
                    {
                        src: [STATIC_PATH],
                        dest: BUILD_PATH + 'data/js.json'
                    }
                ]
            },
            css: {
                options: {
                    format: true,
                    md5: 8,
                    type: ['css'],
                    ext: {
                        level: 1
                    }
                },
                files: [
                    {
                        src: [STATIC_PATH],
                        dest: BUILD_PATH + 'data/css.json'
                    }
                ]
            }
        },
        genStaticConfig: {
            build: []
        }
    };

    // Project Configuration
    grunt.initConfig(config);

    // load grunt tree module.
    grunt.loadNpmTasks('grunt-tree');

    grunt.registerMultiTask('genStaticConfig', 'generate static config files with js.json and css.json', function() {
        grunt.config('tree.css.options.md5', false);
        var files = grunt.config('tree.css.files');
        files[0].dest = 'data/css.json';
        grunt.config('tree.css.files', files);

        grunt.config('tree.js.options.md5', false);
        files = grunt.config('tree.js.files');
        files[0].dest = 'data/js.json';
        grunt.config('tree.js.files', files);
    });
    
    // for production
    grunt.registerTask('static', ['tree']);
    // for development
    grunt.registerTask('buildstatic', ['genStaticConfig', 'tree']);
};
```

### Test
```shell
npm run-script test

# Once you run the follow command in console, you should run `npm install` before.
# grunt test
```

## Release History

1. Compatibility fix for node 0.10.x. [2013/04/12] => for 0.4.1
2. Add nodeunit test case. [2013/04/12] => for 0.4.2
3. Add `ext` option for avoid the same name of key. [2013/06/03] => for 0.4.3
4. Add `cwd` option for flexible configuration.  [2013/07/23] => for 0.4.4
5. Add `exclude` option for filter useless file. And `uncpath`, `prettify` options. [2014/03/19] => for 0.4.5. 
6. Use `grunt.file.match` for `exclude` method. [2014/05/19] => for 0.4.6.

Commit message:

new construct for tree.js and remove some useless options and improve some options

README.md, after:

# grunt-tree
Parse a directory to a tree with json format.

## Why I writen this plugin?
I need build my static files with md5 version. I want to get this:
``` js
// js.json
{
    "base": "js/base.xxx.js",
    "jquery": "js/jquery.xxx.js"
}
// or
{
    "www-base": "www/js/base.xxx.js",
    "mobile-base": "mobile/js/base.xxx.js"
}
// css.json
{
    "base": "css/base.xxx.css"
}
```
Then, I can get the real path via a function, no matter what the environment is development or production.

> The best Grunt plugin ever.

## Getting Started
This plugin requires Grunt `>=0.4.0`

If you haven't used [Grunt](http://gruntjs.com/) before, be sure to check out the [Getting Started](http://gruntjs.com/getting-started) guide, as it explains how to create a [Gruntfile](http://gruntjs.com/sample-gruntfile) as well as install and use Grunt plugins. Once you're familiar with that process, you may install this plugin with this command:

```shell
npm install grunt-tree --save-dev
```

One the plugin has been installed, it may be enabled inside your Gruntfile with this line of JavaScript:

```js
grunt.loadNpmTasks('grunt-tree');
```

## The "tree" task

### Overview
In your project's Gruntfile, add a section named `tree` to the data object passed into `grunt.initConfig()`.

```js
grunt.initConfig({
  tree: {
    options: {
        // hash: string | default: false | like 'md5'
        // hashLen: number | default: false
        // format: | boolean default: false
        // type: array | default: []
        // recurse: boolean | default: true
        // cwd: string | default: ""
        // ext: object
        //      ext.level: boolean or number [1-N] | default: false
        //      ext.hyphen: string | default: "-"
        // isUNCPath: boolean | default: false
        // prettify: boolean | default: false
    },
    your_target: {
      /** contents like this:
        files: [
            {
                src: ['relativePath/'],
                dest: 'saveTheResult/'
            }
        ]
      */
    },
  },
})
```

### Options

#### ~~options.md5~~
Type: `Boolean|Number`
Default value: `false`. Removed in version `0.4.8`, replaced by `options.hash`.

Get the md5 value of the file and put in file name. If the value is number, then cut the full md5 value to the length.

### options.hash
Type: `String`
Default value: `false`.

Get the hash value of the file and insert before the postfix of file name. Value is the algorithm name, like md5.

### options.hashLen
Type: `Number`
Default value: `false`

Get the substring of hash value of file. `hashValue.substring(0, options.hashLen)`

#### options.format
Type: `Boolean`
Default value: `false`

A boolean value that what you want the format of result to be.

The Default result is the tree format like the command tree.

And if format set to true, then output a one-to-one mode. Becareful to set format to true, it will overwrite the same file name.

#### options.type
Type: `Array`
Default value: `false`

Filter the postfix of the files you set.

#### options.recurse
Type: `Boolean`
Default value: `true`

Whether recurse in your given directory.

#### options.cwd
Type: `String`
Default Value: `''`

Relative to the src directory.

#### options.ext
Type: `Object`
Default value: `{ level:0, hyphen: "-" }`. Add in verison `0.4.4`.

There is a new option for solve the problem of the same name in directory. 

*Note:*

*And the format option must be set to `true`*.

The level option in options.ext means the subdirectory level.
If file relative path is 'www/css/base.css' and level set to 1, then the result will be: `"www-base": "www/css/base.css"`.
And if level set to 2, then the result will be: `"css-base": "www/css/base.css"`. But you set level to 3 in this condition, the result also is : `"base": "www/css/base.css"`.

#### ~~options.exclude~~
Type: `Array`
Default value: `[]`. Add in version: `0.4.5`. Removed in version: `0.4.8`.

This is new option for filter needless files. How to use? GO <http://gruntjs.com/api/grunt.file#grunt.file.match>

*Note:*

*This is relative to the value of `options.cwd`*.


#### ~~options.uncpath~~ options.isUNCPath
Type: `Boolean`
Default value: `false`. Add in version `0.4.5`. Replace by `options.isUNCPath`

This is new option for some people run in the windows system and they need unix path rather than the default windows path.

So, if your project run in unix system, you can turn on it.

#### ~~options.perttify~~ options.prettify
Type: `Boolean`
Default value: `false`. Add in version `0.4.5`. Replace by `options.prettify`

This is new option for output style, It is equivalent to `JSON.stringify(json, null, perttify ? 2 : 0)`.

Anyway, see the examples.

### Caution
This task is not support `Building the files object dynamically` in configuring-tasks of grunt.

Go to [Building the files object dynamically](http://gruntjs.com/configuring-tasks#building-the-files-object-dynamically), see more infomation.

### Usage Examples

#### Default Options

```js
grunt.initConfig({
    tree: {
        default: {
            options: {},
            files: [
                {
                    src: ['test/'],
                    dest: '/tmp/test.json'
                }
            ]
        }
    }
});

// If the have files: "a.css", "js/b.js", "c" in the test directory,
// 1. run grunt, then the result will like:
{
    "a": "a.css",
    "js": {
        "b": "js/b.js"
    },
    "c": "c"
}

// 2. change the options to: { md5 : 8 }, and result will be like:
{
    "a": "a.e8dcfa25.css",
    "js": {
        "b": "js/b.59efd297.js"
    },
    "c": "c.a8e91771"
}

// 3. change the options to: { format: true }, and result will be like:

{
    "a": "a.css",
    "b": "js/b.js"
    "c": "c"
}

// 4. change the options to: { type: ["js", "css"] }, and result will be like:
{
    "a": "a.css",
    "js": {
        "b": "js/b.js"
    }
}

// 5. change the options to: { recurse: false }, and result will be like:
{
    "a": "a.css",
    "c": "c"
}

// 6. change the options to : { format: true, ext: { level: 1, hyphen: "-" } }, and result will be like:
// Attention: if we use ext option, and the format must be set to true.
{
    "a": "a.css",
    "c":"c",
    "js-b":"js/b.js"
}
// 7. try to mix the options, and have a look.
...

```
#### Two real example
```js
var APP_NAME = 'imovie',
    PATH_TMP = 'tmp/';

var deps = {};

function getVersion(filepath, jsonFile, grunt) {
    grunt.log.writeln(filepath, jsonFile).ok();
    if (!deps[jsonFile]) {
        deps[jsonFile] = grunt.file.readJSON(jsonFile);
        grunt.log.writeln('Loading file:', jsonFile);
        grunt.log.writeln('Content is:', deps[jsonFile]);
    }
    var filename = filepath.match(/(?:^|\/)([^\/]+)\.(js|css|less)$/)[1];
    return deps[jsonFile][filename];
}

module.exports = function(grunt) {
    var config = {
        pkg: grunt.file.readJSON('package.json'),
        uglify: {
            options: {
                compress: true,
                banner: '/*! ©<%= pkg.name %> <%= pkg.version %> */\n'
            },
            build: {
                files: [
                    {
                        expand: true,
                        cwd: PATH_SRC,
                        src: [APP_NAME + '/*.js', APP_NAME + '/**/*.js'],
                        dest: PATH_DEST,
                        ext: '.js',
                        rename: function(dest, src) {
                            var version = getVersion(src, PATH_TMP + APP_NAME + '.json', grunt);
                            return version && (dest + version);
                        }
                    }
                ]
            }
        },
        tree: {
            options: {
                format: true,
                md5: 8
            },
            js: {
                options: {
                    cwd: APP_NAME + '/',
                    type: ['js']
                },
                files: [
                    {
                        src: PATH_SRC,
                        dest: PATH_TMP + APP_NAME + '.json'
                    }
                ]
            }
        }
    };
    grunt.initConfig(config);
    grunt.loadNpmTasks('grunt-contrib-uglify');
    grunt.loadNpmTasks('grunt-tree');

    grunt.registerTask('builddeps', 'build static dependencies for mobile project base on freemarker', function() {
        var jsContent = grunt.file.read(PATH_TMP + APP_NAME + '.json'),
            cssContent = grunt.file.read(PATH_TMP + APP_NAME + 'css.json');

        grunt.file.write(FILE_STATIC, '<#assign JS_FILE=' + jsContent + ' CSS_FILE=' + cssContent + '>');
    });

    grunt.registerTask('default', ['tree','uglify', 'builddeps']);

});
```

```js
// Gruntfile.js

var STATIC_PATH = 'static/',
    BUILD_PATH = 'build/';

module.exports = function(grunt) {
    var config = {
        tree: {
            js: {
                options: {
                    format: true,
                    md5: 8,
                    type: ['js'],
                    ext: {
                        level: 1
                    }
                },
                files: [
                    {
                        src: [STATIC_PATH],
                        dest: BUILD_PATH + 'data/js.json'
                    }
                ]
            },
            css: {
                options: {
                    format: true,
                    md5: 8,
                    type: ['css'],
                    ext: {
                        level: 1
                    }
                },
                files: [
                    {
                        src: [STATIC_PATH],
                        dest: BUILD_PATH + 'data/css.json'
                    }
                ]
            }
        },
        genStaticConfig: {
            build: []
        }
    };

    // Project Configuration
    grunt.initConfig(config);

    // load grunt tree module.
    grunt.loadNpmTasks('grunt-tree');

    grunt.registerMultiTask('genStaticConfig', 'generate static config files with js.json and css.json', function() {
        grunt.config('tree.css.options.md5', false);
        var files = grunt.config('tree.css.files');
        files[0].dest = 'data/css.json';
        grunt.config('tree.css.files', files);

        grunt.config('tree.js.options.md5', false);
        files = grunt.config('tree.js.files');
        files[0].dest = 'data/js.json';
        grunt.config('tree.js.files', files);
    });
    
    // for production
    grunt.registerTask('static', ['tree']);
    // for development
    grunt.registerTask('buildstatic', ['genStaticConfig', 'tree']);
};
```

### Test
```shell
npm run-script test

# Once you run the follow command in console, you should run `npm install` before.
# grunt test
```

## Release History

1. Compatibility fix for node 0.10.x. [2013/04/12] => for 0.4.1
2. Add nodeunit test case. [2013/04/12] => for 0.4.2
3. Add `ext` option for avoid the same name of key. [2013/06/03] => for 0.4.3
4. Add `cwd` option for flexible configuration.  [2013/07/23] => for 0.4.4
5. Add `exclude` option for filter useless file. And `uncpath`, `prettify` options. [2014/03/19] => for 0.4.5. 
6. Use `grunt.file.match` for `exclude` option. [2014/05/19] => for 0.4.6.
7. New construct for tree.js. Remove `exclude` and `md5` options. Add `hash` and `hashLen` options.  Replace `uncpath` to `isUNCPath` and `perttify` to `prettify`.
